We want to create visualizations,
let's do that right now.
So I am back in the project file and on the page that we created in the last video,
now the first thing we should do is we should delete that page right because we don't need it actually.
To do this,
we simply go down here and press onto that x right here, like this and press delete.
Now we are back on our measures page and as we want to create some new visualizations, we should create
a new page, right here,
double-click it and call it overview and press enter.
So what could we create in that overview page?
Well I think we should start with a basic line chart maybe, to do this, we go to the visualization column
right here and select the line chart.
Now we got our chart on the report page and if I click right here and hold the left mouse button, I can
move the chart around,
so as you can see this page,
so this white background limits the area where I can position the visualization.
So let's put it right here maybe and make it a little bit bigger, like that.
So we now have that visualization, our line chart and we want to add some data to that, we know how this
works
from the last video, we can go to the fields column right here and in this fields column,
we then click on to that arrow next to FACT-Population for instance. Well
and now the first starting point could be the population data and we could use this one then and drag
it, well maybe into the chart.
This worked,
this doesn't look really good at the moment of course but it worked
and you can see that because the population was automatically defined as a value which is correct.
Now another option to do that would be to take it again and drag it directly to the values area right
here
and then we have the population twice,
so to delete one of those items, you simply click onto that x right here, like this. A third option would
be to simply create the visualization and select it directly in that box right here,
so let's first unselect it and now the visualization is gone,
so you have to be careful about that.
However if you click it now again, then you can see that that Power BI automatically creates a new visualization,
the problem is that this is a column chart and we want to have a line chart
and additionally, it's not formatted the way we want it to be.
Let's quickly change that by increasing the size again, drag it right here
and go to the visualizations column and select the line chart.
So now we have our initial situation back and now we can add some more data to that chart because at
the moment, it doesn't look good.
So another information that we might want to add is the year,
so our access right there. To do this, we can stay in the FACT-Population table and select a year down here
and drag it to the axis area, like this. Now it looks better right, now we have the development of the population
from 1950 to 2100
but we might want to add some more information,
for instance information for specific countries
and as we have our nice data model, we can easily do that.
So we can go to the DIM-Region table, click right here and now select the country,
let me do that
and if I now drag it to the legend area right here,
then you can see, well you can see a mess right
because we have too many countries in our dataset at the moment.
So it might make more sense if we don't select the countries but simply select the regions as a legend
for our visualization. To do that, we simply unselect a country right here,
take the region name and drag it right there.
Now this looks better right, now we created our first line chart for different countries, different periods,
for the population of the total world
and we did that with just a few clicks.
Let's create a second visualization, maybe a column chart this time, maybe this one, the clustered column
chart. Let's do that,
so and now I changed our visualization,
why did that happen?
Well I selected our line chart and then I changed the visualization.
So this doesn't only work if you don't have any data in your visualization,
this also works if the visualization already displays some data,
so this is a nice feature if you want to try out the different chart types, like this, like that or back
to our line chart but we don't want to change that chart,
we want to create a new one.
So we simply click on the report page,
so on to an empty space, right that for instance to unselect our initial visualization and now we
go to the visualizations column again and click right here.
Now we have that new visualization
and we can drag it around like this, yes
I think this looks fine
and now we want to add some data also to this visualization
and let me
select it by the way.
So let's start again with the total population,
so we go to the fields column, population and use it as value like this, doesn't really look impressive
at the moment.
Let's maybe add some axis data but this time we don't take the year
but the region name maybe, so we click right here and drag it to the axis field.
Now it looks better right, now we have our visualization which shows us the total population for the entire period
in our dataset for different regions
and with that, we now created our first two visualizations
but let me select the visualizations once again.
So if I select the left visualization, we can see that we have the year, the region name and the population
but what about those tooltips?
Well we will talk about that and also about interactions in the next video.